'In harm's way' and Farage's 'mass deportations' plan11 minutes agoShareSaveShareSaveIsrael's double strike on a hospital in Gaza and Nigel Farage's plan for mass deportations feature prominently on Tuesday's papers. The Financial Times spotlights a picture of two journalists killed in Israel's bombing of Nasser hospital in Khan Younis on Monday. The paper shows Moaz Abu Taha and Mariam Abu Dagga taking a selfie in their press gear in January. The pair were among five journalists killed in the strike, which claimed the lives of at least 20 people, according to the Gaza health ministry.The Guardian follows with Israel facing "global condemnation" for the hospital bombing. The paper says the first strike hit the top floor and the building was struck again as rescuers and journalists arrived on the scene to help the wounded. Front and centre is a picture of Mariam Abu Dagga, standing in front of the ruins of destroyed buildings in Gaza, with the paper featuring words from her will to her son: "I want you to pray for me and don't weep over me, so that I may remain happy." Israel has called the incident a "tragic mishap".Farage is accusing Sir Keir Starmer of "siding with courts over the people" as he sets out a plan for mass deportations, the Daily Telegraph reports. Writing in the paper, the Reform UK leader says the UK is facing a "national emergency" of "uncontrolled illegal migration" and pledges to make moves that will remove barriers to deport migrants. Alongside is a striking image of a migrant carrying a child on his back as he swims in the Channel in a "desperate scramble for a ride" to the UK."Farage unveils plan for 'mass deportations'" is the Daily Mail's take. The paper previews the Reform UK leader's speech on Tuesday, during which he will challenge the PM to ditch his support for "outdated" international treaties made by foreign courts. Elsewhere, the Mail speculates on Harry Styles' love life, as it features a picture of the singer with actress Zoe Kravitz in Rome.More than 100 asylum seekers have been detained for deportation back to France, the Times reports, with Sir Keir stepping up his plan to tackle the small boats crisis. The paper also quotes Farage's critique of the government's "one in, one out" deal with France as "unworkable" as he prepares to announce his own plan.The government plans to launch a "crackdown on honour crime" to combat growing abuses of women including murder, forced marriage and female genital mutilation, the Metro reports. The paper says the measures are prompted by the murder of British Pakistani lawyer Fawziyah Javed, who was killed by her husband when he pushed her off a hill in 2021. Ms Javed's mother has welcomed the move saying she hopes "this will help many more people" affected by honour-based abuse.The i Paper says firms will be encouraged to allow flexible hours and working from home initiatives as part of "menopause action plans" to keep women in work. The paper reports that one in 10 women in employment during their menopause have been forced to leave their job due to severe symptoms, with an estimated cost of £1.5bn a year to the economy.Schools are facing a "racism crisis" declares the Daily Mirror. The paper says the number of kids being sent home due to racist behaviour has "soared to record levels", with the youngest being aged four. Figures show suspensions have jumped to more than "15,000 in a year", double the number in 2020/2021.Health chiefs are hailing a "robotic surgery revolution" to help slash NHS waiting times, according to the Daily Express. The paper says the "trailblazing technology" allows surgeons to control a robotic system to operate with "extraordinary precision" to reduce pain and complications for patients."Harry is Zo in love" dominates the Sun's front page as the paper dives into the "string of dates" between Harry Styles and Zoe Kravitz. The paper features a source saying the pair "seem really into each other". Also prominent is a helicopter crash on the Isle of White, where three people were killed after the aircraft went down during a flying lesson. Finally, a possible breakthrough in quantum physics may bring us "back to herr future" says the Daily Star. It reports that Austrian researchers may be close to cracking the secret of time travel after sending particles back into the past using a "rewind protocol that reverses time flow". Any aspiring Marty McFly wannabes take note.Sign up for our morning newsletter and get BBC News in your inbox.Related Internet LinksDaily ExpressDaily MailDaily MirrorDaily StarDaily TelegraphFinancial TimesGuardianIndependentMetroSunThe iTimes