# Record bank holiday temperatures for parts of UK

Parts of the UK have enjoyed their hottest August bank holiday on record, with Wales hitting the highest temperature of the day.

Hawarden, on the border near Chester, hit 29.6C - the highest recorded in Wales on the August bank holiday. Magilligan in Northern Ireland also enjoyed a record high of 24.5C.

The Met Office said last week that the summer was** **already on track to be among the UK's hottest on record, with four heatwaves declared.

But the heat will be short-lived, as overnight the remnants of Hurricane Erin are set to bring in wet and windy weather - first to Northern Ireland, and then across most of the UK.

As of 17:00 BST, the highest temperature for England recorded on Monday was 29.3C in Ross-on-Wye in Herefordshire.

The hundreds of thousands of people attending the Notting Hill Carnival in west London saw plenty of warm weather, with a high in the city of 28C.

For Scotland, where there was no bank holiday on Monday, the highest temperature was 27.1C recorded at Charterhall in the Borders.

But rain and winds of up to 40mph are is expected in Northern Ireland and Scotland's Western Isles by late afternoon.

The rest of the week looks much more changeable with showers or longer spells of rain expected, as well as windier, cooler conditions.

This is in part due to the remnants of Hurricane Erin getting closer to the UK, having skirted the Caribbean and east coast of the US this week.

Temperatures in East Anglia and south-east England could still reach 27C on Tuesday, but by Friday the mercury will drop to between 16-19C.

The Met Office expects rain to persist throughout the week - which will be welcome in many parts of the country after a particularly dry summer.

South Farnborough in Hampshire has not seen any measurable rain in August so far, while many other locations across southern England have received less than 1mm of rain this month.

Prolonged dry periods throughout this summer have led to a significant shortfall of water in England, with hosepipe bans declared for millions - some of which are set to remain into the winter.

This means the UK is on course for one of its worst harvests on record, according to the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board, a statutory research organisation.

While linking climate change with specific individual weather events can be difficult, scientists say that climate change is generally making bouts of hot weather longer, more intense and more frequent.

Four summer heatwaves in quick succession after an unusually warm spring suggests climate change is having some effect on 2025's weather.