Coles has made more than $44bn in sales revenue and more than $1bn in net profit across its supermarkets, online grocery service, and bottle shops in the past financial year.
Coles Group has just released its results for the 12 months to 30 June, with its executives expected to speak to investors and journalists from 10am AEST.
Of its $44.35bn in Coles’ overall revenue, nearly $40bn was made in its supermarkets, where the group reported $39.99bn in revenue.
This was a net increase of 2.4% from the year before. However, Coles says its normalised supermarket sales, which account for the 53 weeks of trading in 2024, rose by 4.3%.
Its alcohol sales didn’t fare as well, with the company reporting $3.67bn in revenue across its bottle shops – a net 0.7% decrease from the year before or a modest 1.1% increase when “normalised”.
While the Coles Group’s net profit fell 3.5% to $1.08bn, its normalised profit rose 2.4%.
Over the past year, the supermarket giant’s practices have come under a microscope, as the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission scrutinised Coles and its competitors during its inquiry into the supermarkets sector.
Coles and Woolworths are also in the midst of a federal court challenge launched by the ACCC, with the consumer regulator alleging the companies breached the Australian Consumer Law by misleading customers over discount pricing claims.
Liberal senator condemns 'unacceptable' targeting of Indian Australians ahead of anti-immigration protest
A Liberal senator has spoken out against a planned anti-immigration protest this Sunday.
Paul Scarr, a Queensland senator, addressed parliament last night, condemning the March for Australia rallies that will take place across the country. There are nine planned protests.
The flyers accuse Labor and the Liberals of being “complicit” in mass migration, and singles out an increase in migration from India. Scarr told parliament he stands in solidarity with the Indian community in Australia:
I am compelled to rise in this place at the earliest opportunity to call it out and to condemn it and say that the language and references to Australians of Indian heritage is unacceptable. It is outrageous … it seeks to divide Australians at a time when we need to unite.
Fewer children attending childcare provider G8, but company posts $22m profit
Childcare giant G8 Education has seen profits pick up despite fewer children attending its centres, which it has blamed on cost-of-living pressures rather than child safety issues across the sector.
Fewer families took up childcare spots across the company’s 399 centres in the first half of 2025 than the same period in 2024, the centre said. Children also attended slightly less frequently, which combined saw revenue slip to $465.4m but also brought down costs, meaning profits soared to $22.5m.
But customer satisfaction was the more important measure, if the comments from G8’s chief executive, Pejman Okhovat, were anything to go by. He started his remarks addressing the sector’s child abuse crisis that has seen governments rush to tighten regulation, saying in a statement:
We recognise that safeguarding children is not just a regulatory obligation, it is an ethical and social licence imperative.
Okhovat said satisfaction and employee retention were on the rise while family inquiries for places had remained stable compared to 2024. He told investors some families were delaying starting their children at a centre early in the year.
Family satisfaction slipped slightly in April but rose again by May. G8’s annual report, released this morning, read:
[The] impact of [the] Victorian incident on occupancy is localised to the impacted centres thus far, and we are not seeing wider trends across the state or the network.
The chief executive also highlighted that 93.7% of G8’s centres had been rated as “exceeding” or “meeting” the national quality standard, which is above average. But that implies 25 centres have not achieved either rating, with a further two yet to be rated.
Coles has made more than $44bn in sales revenue and more than $1bn in net profit across its supermarkets, online grocery service, and bottle shops in the past financial year.
Coles Group has just released its results for the 12 months to 30 June, with its executives expected to speak to investors and journalists from 10am AEST.
Of its $44.35bn in Coles’ overall revenue, nearly $40bn was made in its supermarkets, where the group reported $39.99bn in revenue.
This was a net increase of 2.4% from the year before. However, Coles says its normalised supermarket sales, which account for the 53 weeks of trading in 2024, rose by 4.3%.
Its alcohol sales didn’t fare as well, with the company reporting $3.67bn in revenue across its bottle shops – a net 0.7% decrease from the year before or a modest 1.1% increase when “normalised”.
While the Coles Group’s net profit fell 3.5% to $1.08bn, its normalised profit rose 2.4%.
Over the past year, the supermarket giant’s practices have come under a microscope, as the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission scrutinised Coles and its competitors during its inquiry into the supermarkets sector.
Coles and Woolworths are also in the midst of a federal court challenge launched by the ACCC, with the consumer regulator alleging the companies breached the Australian Consumer Law by misleading customers over discount pricing claims.
US parcel delivery suspensions ‘a very bad sign’, Tim Wilson says
We’re getting more reaction domestically to the decision by Australia Post to suspend most parcels to the US as it deals with new tariff rules.
The shadow minister for small business, Tim Wilson, says the move is “very concerning” and that small businesses will be most heavily affected by the decision.
He told Sky News a moment ago, he expects the government will want to quickly deal with the new rules.
I suspect [Ambassador] Kevin Rudd is going to be off to the White House or the Congress pretty quick smart, because we need to make sure this relationship is sorted. Because this is a very bad sign.
Australia is the latest of dozens of countries to suspend parcels being sent to the US.
The government says it’s been engaging with the US to remove all tariffs – with Australia currently receiving the lowest baseline tariff of 10% on most goods exported to the US.
Government 'working to limit disruption' amid parcel delivery suspensions
The government says US tariffs on low value imports is “disappointing”, and will work with Australia Post to comply with the new requirements.
A government spokesperson said:
The United States’ decision to remove exemptions from tariffs and duties for low value imports is disappointing and will only drive up costs for American families and small businesses.
The Albanese Government will work with Australia Post to limit disruption for affected customers while they make adjustments to comply with new requirements.
We continue to advocate for the removal of all tariffs on Australian exports, in line with our free trade agreement.
Australia Post US parcel suspension follows similar moves in Europe
Australia Post’s temporary partial suspension of parcels to the US follows a similar action by dozens of other nations, in response to the new import tariffs.
1.36bn packages were sent last year under the “de minimis” exemption, for parcels worth under US$800, according to US customs.
With that exception being removed, those parcels will now face a 15% tariff.
When will the government announce its 2035 emissions targets?
While Labor sledges the Coalition over its disunity on climate action, the government still hasn’t revealed its own 2035 emission targets, or released a long awaited climate risk report.
The government is running out of time to announce a new target – and Watt says more detail will be revealed next month.
But Labor is remaining tight-lipped on how ambitious that target will be.
[Energy minister] Chris Bowen is doing a power of work on that at the moment, and he’s already indicated that in September, we’ll be revealing a lot more about that.
Watt says government considering removing ‘duplication’ between state and federal housing approvals
Murray Watt is continuing his media rounds, moving to Sky News, and says one of the red tape issues under current environment laws is where a project requires both state and federal approval.
He gives an example of his recent approval of a housing development at the Queen Victoria markets in Melbourne, which he says followed years of consideration by the state government.
We think that it is possible to reduce that kind of duplication in the system rather than having both levels of government double up. That would enable a much quicker approval, but at the same time, those assessments will be done against strong standards.
Watt then brushes off concerns from the Nationals that some industries would get a free pass under the reforms while other industries like mining wouldn’t.
We all know that the word environment is allergic to National party members. We’re seeing them run around the parliament constantly try to undermine Sussan Ley’s leadership on net zero … The sort of system that we’re looking at putting in place would treat different projects and different sectors in a very similar way.
The halt will prevent most Australian businesses from selling to US customers until a new pre-paid tariff system can be set up.
From today parcels will have to detail their country of origin and a harmonised system (HS) tariff code, with tariffs on low-value parcels due to take effect within days.
From Friday 29 August, parcels valued under US$800 imported into the US will attract tariffs or flat fees – where they were previously exempt.
Australia Post will continue shipping letters, documents of no commercial value and gifts that are sent by individuals and are worth less than US$100.
Waters says EPBC reform must include climate trigger
The Greens leader, Larissa Waters, joins RN Breakfast after Murray Watt, and says she welcomes the urgency of getting the EPBC legislation into parliament this year, but the Greens want to see a climate trigger.
We have always said that climate should be considered by our nature laws, and you just have to look at the algal bloom in South Australia to know that you can’t consider climate and nature separately …
I think it was a bit artificial to say that you’ve got other laws that deal with climate, therefore you shouldn’t have the climate impact on nature considered.
Asked about streamlining the approvals process for housing under the current EPBC act, Waters says there is room for greater efficiencies in the process, but ultimately the federal government to “uphold those international conventions and standards.”
Housing developers will be ‘incentivised’ to provide information for faster approvals: Watt
One of the announcements from last week’s economic roundtable was the fast-tracking of up to 26,000 homes currently held up by the EPBC Act.
So how will those homes actually be fast-tracked?
Murray Watt tells RN Breakfast one of the problems in the system is sometimes developers don’t provide all the information they should – and if they did, a project could be approved in as little as four months.
This is another measure that we’re taking within our existing resources to focus them on clearing that backlog of housing. But also what we announced over the weekend is that we want to make better use of an existing pathway under the EPBC legislation that allows for rapid assessment of projects.
We want to incentivise companies to do the right thing and come to us with all of the information that’s required, and that will enable us to make a much faster assessment.
EPBC reforms will be in ‘spirit’ of 2021 Samuel review, Watt says
Joining ABC Radio National Breakfast, Murray Watt says the EPBC reforms will be in the “spirit” of the Graeme Samuel review of the legislation.
Graeme’s report came down nearly five years ago, but it’s been nearly 20 years since there’s been any proper overhaul of these laws. They’re not working for business, they’re not working for environment. If we don’t fix these laws, we won’t get the housing we need, we won’t get the renewables we need, and we certainly will continue to see the environment suffer.
To recap, here’s what Samuel recommended in his review, which he handed to the previous Coalition government in 2021:
Watt says Samuel’s recommendations fall into three categories:
Firstly, stronger environmental protections, secondly, quicker and more efficient approvals, and thirdly, more transparency regarding decision making on environmental regulation.
There are still a lot of unknowns with the reforms – for example, Watt has promised that the government will establish a federal environmental protection agency, but he’s still consulting on what that body will look like.