Virginia Giuffre memoir to be published months after death
A posthumous memoir by Virginia Giuffre, who accused the Duke of York and the late disgraced financier Jeffrey Epstein of sexual assault, will be published in October.
Ms Giuffre had finished working on the book, titled Nobody's Girl, before she took her own life in Australia in April, at the age of 41.
Publishing house Alfred A Knopf said Ms Giuffre had made clear weeks before her death that it was her "heartfelt wish" the memoir would still be released in the event of her passing.
Ms Giuffre had alleged that Epstein and his former girlfriend, Ghislaine Maxwell, trafficked her to Prince Andrew when she was 17. Prince Andrew has denied all allegations against him.
In 2022, the prince reached an out-of-court settlement with Ms Giuffre. The settlement included a statement in which he expressed regret for his association with Epstein, but contained no admission of liability or apology.
The 400-page memoir, written with co-author Amy Wallace, will be the first time Ms Giuffre has spoken publicly about the prince since the settlement.
Knopf, which is a division of Penguin Random House, said Ms Giuffre sent Ms Wallace an email on 1 April, shortly after she said she was in a car accident.
"The content of this book is crucial, as it aims to shed light on the systemic failures that allow the trafficking of vulnerable individuals across borders," the email said.
"It is imperative that the truth is understood and that the issues surrounding this topic are addressed, both for the sake of justice and awareness."
The publisher said the book will share "intimate, disturbing, and heartbreaking new details about her time with Epstein, Maxwell, and their many well-known friends, including Prince Andrew".
BBC News has contacted Buckingham Palace for comment.
Epstein took his own life in prison in 2019, where he was being held awaiting trial on sex trafficking charges. Investigators described his death as a suicide.
He was previously convicted in 2008 for soliciting prostitution from a minor.
Maxwell was sentenced to 20 years in prison in the US for her role in Epstein's trafficking and abuse.
In an interview with US officials in July, Maxwell called allegations of Prince Andrew having sexual relations with an underage girl in Maxwell's home "mind-blowingly not conceivable".
She said she believed an infamous photo showing the prince, Ms Giuffre and Maxwell together was "literally a fake photo", according to transcripts released last week.
Ms Giuffre's family said they were "outraged" by the content of Maxwell's interview, and accused the US government of having given Maxwell "a platform to rewrite history".